High in this video we're going to take a look at the last little bit of functionality that we have to
define parameters for functions.
So let's take a look at this stop star Cong's which really stands for key word arguments.
So does recall that star args is used to scoop up a variable amount of remaining positional arguments
so you can define specific positional arguments and then you can scoop up any additional ones that the
user may provide when they call the function by using Starns.
Now of course this returns a topple it's going to be you know stored inside a table and the name itself
is arbitrary.
Right the real stuff here the real performer is Stosh.
OK.
Now Stockwell's is kind of the same thing.
It's used to scoop up a variable amount of remaining keyword arguments.
So the single star scoops up the positional arguments and the double stuff scoops up the keyword arguments
and it will be stored in a dictionary under the name of whatever variable name you use here.
It is customary to use KW for keyword args But again you can change that depending on the context you're
in it may make more sense to call it something else.
So again the parameter name is arbitrary.
The real performer here the real star is the double stuff.
So the thing is that the double star can be specified even if the positional arguments have not been
exhausted.
Right.
Which is unlike the keyword only arguments that we saw in the last lecture where you first had to exhaust
your positional arguments before you could start essentially defining keyword only arguments with starstuff.
You can actually put that even if you haven't defined anything that exhausts the positional arguments
like a star or a star.
Args for example and the only other thing too is that no parameters can come after the Stillstand.
KW X kind of makes sense because while the named arguments the keyword only arguments have to come last.
And this Coop's up anything that wasn't actually specifically defined as a keyword only argument.
So therefore you can have other arguments after that.
That's kind of the end of the line.
So let's look at an example that will be easier to understand.
So we can define this function this way.
Right.
So we have to stand here basically remember what this does.
It basically says we don't have any positional arguments in this method because we don't have any defined
before the star and star essentially indicates the end of positional arguments.
Then we have a keyword only argument called D which is mandatory because it has no default value.
And then we scoop up any remaining ones that may be present when the function is called in the arguments
so we can call it this way we can say func equals one but we need to put Diggles one and then we have
equals two and B was three.
Now the order of those as usual with keyword arguments doesn't matter.
And in this case what we'll get is that D will be equal to 1 and then this parameter is here.
KW X is going to have these remaining two keyword arguments in a dictionary where the key of the dictionary
will be the key right of the keyword argument and the value will be the value that you provided.
Hence the name keyword arguments and func equals one and you can do that as well since again the start
doesn't mandate that additional keyword arguments have to be present only that they can be present.
And then it will just keep them up.
So in this case we'll get Diggles one and Kate and will just be an empty dictionary.
Good get another example of course we don't even have to specify anything before the stound stuff.
As I mentioned in the slide you don't have to exhaust all your positional parameters before putting
that in Python will automatically understand that.
OK.
From this point forward I'm only looking for keyword arguments so you can call the function this way
in which case care that we args will just be that dictionary with those key value pairs and then you
can go phunk without anything in which case the Kieta will just be an empty dictionary.
You could also do this.
You can say Starns comma style Stockwell's And so what that's going to do.
It's going to collect to collect all the positional arguments into a table and all the keyword arguments
into a dictionary.
So here if we call it this way then odds will be the top all one and containing 1 and 2 and Kate answered
with a dictionary containing the key value pairs for a and b.
We can also of course again call it with no parameters at all no arguments at all.
Since each one of those doesn't mandate a positional or a keyword argument.
And so here we would end up with an empty top of arms and an empty dictionary for KW.
So let's take a quick look at some code to see this in action.
So let's start by looking at the Cong's functionality so we can just define it this way.
Now again this doesn't have to be called KW.
That's the general way that we name it.
But it's just a convention you can use something else if it makes more sense in your context.
So I'll use for example C in this case you probably wouldn't want to use something like.
And by the way because that's going to be confusing to people because usually they're expecting Starns
not Stanstead.
So it at the very least don't use that use something else if you want to like maybe others.
Right.
But you go upstairs to others.
And we're just going to print that out so we'll print the variable out.
And now you can call this function with as many keyword arguments as you want.
So April's one equals two equals three whatever you want and then you'll get that others will become
a dictionary with the key value pairs being the key and the value of your keyword arguments.
So pretty straightforward.
Now if you want you can of course combine doubles down with the star as well so we can do something
like this.
There funk and stuff stars black box and will print on us and will print Congress.
So by doing this.
Well here what we're saying is that we have an arbitrary number of positional arguments and here we
have keyword only arguments an arbitrary number of them as well.
So we can call it this way.
You could say one comic to as many as we want.
And then at some point we can switch over to keyword arguments.
So we might say X equals 100 y equals two hundred.
Now you can cannot at this point.
Now back to positional arguments right.
You try and do this you'll just get an error that tells you that the positional argument follows a keyword
argument that's not allowed.
So you have to specify your positional arguments first exhaust them and then move on to your keyword
arguments.
So when we do that you'll see that one in two went into the top hole and X and Y went into the Kwan's
dictionary.
So pretty straightforward.
Now of course if you want you don't have to use stuff you can use actual positional.
So we can say let's say a and b are two positional parameters and let's say Now you want to collect
your keyword arguments using a stop start.
Now remember when we were doing the section on Star args.
Then if you wanted to name a keyword only argument you had to use a start to indicate that this is the
end of the line for positional arguments.
Now we're still asking.
Let's say I want to do this.
This is actually not going to work because this already basically says hey there are no more positional
arguments after this point because that's already known right.
Once we start using keyword only arguments then all the positional arguments are no longer allowed after
that point.
So if we try and do something like this I'll show you what happens.
So we'll just print all the variables out.
We get this that named arguments must follow a base star.
So the only time you would want to use this is if you want to have a name a specific named keyword argument
in that position.
That will work just fine.
Because now you can call the function saying one from a to d is going to be called to maybe 20 and then
X will be 100 and y will be 200.
That will be the additional ones.
Also the order of this doesn't matter.
Right.
If we want we can specify Dean over here.
That's perfectly fine and so we end up with a equal to one equal to two.
And then the dictionary.
Of course we didn't print this but the dictionary contains X and Y.
So let's go ahead and print the rerun.
And there we go D is 20 k.
So if you want to have only Stasiak was but no named keyword only arguments then you could do this.
Right so a comma Baeza will start with our positional arguments and then would just directly write starstuff
quote.
They will print beam and then will print Kwan's.
And so now you can call the function say 1 2 and then x equals 100 y equals 300.
And when we execute that we get as expected is one these two and then Kwan's is the dictionary containing
the x and y keyword pairs.
OK on this other things that you can do to kind of play around with the star.
The stars are quads and we'll get into that into the next video when we'll look at putting everything
together and we'll kind of recap everything we've seen so far.
But again I urge you to just play around to find Neal simple functions like this.
Would you just print out the parameters you open up the values I should say that you'd get in those
parameters in the function and see what you can or can't do and how it kind of works.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.